## EPIFBMC
**Enhancer-promoter interactions (EPIs)** play a key role in epigenetic regulation of gene ex-pression, dominating cellular identity and functional diversity. Dissecting these interac-tions is crucial for understanding transcriptional regulatory networks and their signifi-cance in cell differentiation, development, and disease. Here, we propose a novel deep learning framework-EPIFBMC that leverages DNA sequence and genomic features for ac-curate EPI prediction. The EPIFBMC framework consists of three key modules: the Four-Encoding module first encodes the DNA sequence in multiple dimensions to extract key sequence information; then the BESL (Balanced Ensemble Subset Learning, BESL) adopts an integrated subset learning strategy to optimize the feature learning process of positive and negative samples; finally, the MCANet module completes the training of EPIs prediction based on Multi-channel Network. We evaluated EPIFBMC on three cell line da-tasets(HeLa, IMR90, and NHEK), and validated its generalizability across three inde-pendent datasets(K562, GM12878, HUVEC) through cross-cell-line experiments, compar-ing favorably with state-of-the-art methods. Notably, EPIFBMC balances genomic feature richness and computational complexity, significantly accelerating training speed. Abla-tion studies identified two key DNA sequence features—positional conservation and posi-tional specificity score—which showed critical predictive value across a benchmark da-taset of six diverse cell lines. The experimental results show that EPIFBMC shows excel-lent performance in the EPIs prediction task, providing a powerful tool for decoding gene regulatory networks. It is believed that it will have important application prospects in de-velopmental biology, disease mechanism research, and therapeutic target discovery. The source code for EPIFBMC is available at https://github.com/Fated-2/EPIFBMC.
